this video was made possible by SeatGeek
for $20 off your first purchase go to
see geek comm and use the promo code h
AI welcome to las vegas the oasis that
went from a settlement to an outpost to
a haven for construction workers on the
hoover dam to blow off some damn steam
Sin City can and does tolerate plenty
but there's one cardinal sin that the
city just doesn't tolerate cheating so
what do poor multi-billionaire casino
owners do when someone starts beating
the house well cheating in a casino is
actually a felony although in most cases
depending on the severity perpetrators
are just escorted out any time a casino
encounters a cheater they take down
their information and pass on their
names to paid agencies that compile and
look into the cheaters the most well
known and perhaps notorious of these is
Griffin investigations founded in 1967
by Robert R Griffin and his wife at the
time Beverly this mom-and-pop detective
agencies considered themselves a white
hat in the gambling world they're the
good guys but of course so is the guy
that made scrub season 9 according to
the guy who made scrub season 9
apparently Robert Griffin had a gift for
remembering faces and kept a log of
criminals and cheaters in a three-ring
binder called the Griffin book at first
Griffin was reluctant to go digital to a
mistrust of computers but his wife
eventually convinced him to work with
modern technology and the book grew into
a multi volume database with dossiers
unknown cheaters in the gambling world
updated in real time if a cheater was in
the area
Griffin's clients would receive a fax
outlining the cheers most recent alias
height weights date of birth and
security photos of them from where they
were last spotted but Griffin gained his
reputation as the expert after taking
down the infamous mit blackjack team in
the early 90s this mit blackjack team
used the movie cliche technique of card
counting there's even a whole movie
about the team with Kevin Spacey who's
clearly a good actor since he
convincingly played a law-abiding moral
citizen card counting you see is the
fully legal process of gaining an
advantage while gambling by counting
cards in blackjack players need a
combined cart value higher than the
dealer's but that value can't exceed 21
or else you're out there are fixed
amounts of cards and decks involved so
card counting is the practice of winning
your bets based off the odds of the next
card while keeping in mind the value of
the cards on the table since players are
using math and logic this isn't
technically cheating but it does label
card counters as
vanna's players which is casino speak
for nerds that lose us money casinos in
Vegas are legally allowed to ask card
counters to beat it and bar them from
returning as long as there's no other
prejudice involved it's easy enough to
ban one player but it's tougher to try
and ban teams of card counters which is
exactly why the mit blackjack team was
founded after having existed off and on
for years since players you know
graduated the team was were born in the
early 90s as a registered business run
by three of the former players this team
legally raised a million dollars from
investors to gamble away and win back
which is a pretty good sign that their
methods were reliable in the two years
after a tree birth the team grew to 80
people and their players simultaneously
had casinos all around the world winning
Millions
whenever the casino would ban the
members they caught new members would
take their place like a Hydra head or
interns soon the members of the mit
blackjack team found it impossible to go
into a casino unrecognized they even
tried disguise and drag unable to get in
anywhere the team found out that they'd
been outed by Griffin investigations
whence Griffin had realised that the
brilliant mit blackjack team were not
brilliant enough to leave out their
Cambridge Massachusetts addresses and
their hotel reservations they entered
all MIT students into their database
just to be safe simple solution but it
warmed with their identities blown and
wigs snatched the MIT team found it
impossible to play so it was dissolved
by 1994 Griffin's legacy however didn't
stay golden in 2000 and vanished players
James cross Jean and Michael Russo were
arrested while playing at Caesar's
Palace under the charge of cheating
after winning over $18,000 from an
inexperienced dealer at poker though
they were experienced players everything
they were doing was legal
the officers however believed that they
were using illegal means based off
information given to them by Griffin
Griffin's page on Russo categorized him
as a known cheater and cart bender Russo
disputed this and the pair took the case
to court a jury agree that the entries
had been libel and Griffin had to pay
25k in punitive damage to Grosjean
Andrew so soon after Griffin
investigations filed for bankruptcy in
2008 Beverly Griffin said they'd been
caught up in payments and that she taken
over for her ex-husband in 2003
Robert R Griffin died in 2016 although
Griffin investigations is still running
but its site hasn't been up to
since the early 2000s James gross gene
however was entered into the blackjack
Hall of Fame in 2006 and he takes
personal credit for the downfall of
Griffin investigations if you've been
banned from all the Vegas casinos
because you're just too smart it's okay
because there are plenty of shows and
events to see there the biggest crime in
Vegas or really anywhere for that matter
is some ticket prices SeatGeek fixes
this by aggregating tickets for sale
from all over the internet listing them
in one place and telling you whether
each price is a good deal or a bad deal
they even show you a view of what the
field or stage will look like from where
you're sitting
best of all you can buy your first
tickets from sea geek at the link in the
description for $20 off by using the
code h AI at check ups
[Music]